The remctl package as a whole is:

  Copyright 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Board of Trustees,
  Leland Stanford Jr. University.  All rights reserved.

and released under the following license:

  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
  provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
  both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
  supporting documentation, and that the name of Stanford University not
  be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
  software without specific, written prior permission.  Stanford
  University makes no representations about the suitability of this
  software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
  implied warranty.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

All individual files with no other license statement are released under
this license.  Some files have additional copyright dates from earlier
releases or may be owned by other copyright holders as noted in those
files.  Some files are individually released under difference licenses,
all of which are compatible with the above general package license with
the exception of the PHP PECL build system in the php directory.  The PHP
build files are separate works that do not affect the license of remctl as
a whole or of the PHP remctl PECL extension, but which impose the
requirements of the GNU General Public License or the PHP 3.01 License on
distributions and modifications of those files.

Collected copyright notices for the entire package:

  Copyright 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
      Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University
  Copyright 2007 Marcus Watts
  Copyright 2008 Andrew Mortensen <admorten@umich.edu>
  Copyright 2008 Thomas L. Kula <kula@tproa.net>
  Copyright 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
      by Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
  Copyright 1991, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001,
      2002, 2003 by The Internet Software Consortium and Rich Salz
  Copyright 1997, 2000, 2001, 2002 Benjamin Sittler
  Copyright 2000, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008
      Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>
  Copyright 1995 Patrick Powell
  Copyright 1996, 1997 Brandon Long <blong@fiction.net>
  Copyright 1998 Thomas Roessler <roessler@guug.de>
  Copyright 1998 Michael Elkins <me@cs.hmc.edu>
  Copyright 1998 Andrew Tridgell <tridge@samba.org>
  Copyright 2000, 2005 Hrvoje Niksic <hniksic@xemacs.org>
  Copyright 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001,
      2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
      Free Software Foundation, Inc.
  Copyright 1994 X Consortium
  Copyright 1999-2006 The PHP Group
  Copyright 1994-2007 Ralf S. Engelschall <rse@engelschall.com>

The files m4/inet-nota.m4, m4/socket.m4, portable/socket.h,
tests/libtest.c, tests/libtest.h, tests/portable/getaddrinfo-t.c,
tests/portable/getnameinfo-t.c, tests/portable/inet_aton-t.c,
tests/portable/inet_ntoa-t.c, tests/portable/inet_ntop-t.c,
tests/portable/setenv-t.c, tests/portable/snprintf-t.c,
tests/portable/strlcat-t.c, tests/portable/strlcpy-t.c,
tests/util/concat-t.c, tests/util/fakewrite.c, tests/util/messages-t.c,
tests/util/network-t.c, tests/util/vector-t.c, tests/util/xmalloc.c,
tests/util/xmalloc-t, tests/util/xwrite-t.c, util/fdflag.c,
util/messages.c, util/network.c, util/util.h, util/xmalloc.c, and
util/xwrite.c are released under the following copyright and license:

  Copyright 2006, 2007, 2008
      Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University
  Copyright (c) 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
      by Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
  Copyright (c) 1991, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001,
      2002, 2003 by The Internet Software Consortium and Rich Salz

  This code is derived from software contributed to the Internet Software
  Consortium by Rich Salz.
  
  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
  purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
  
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
  REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
  WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
  ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
  OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

The files portable/asprintf.c, portable/daemon.c, portable/dummy.c,
portable/getaddrinfo.c, portable/getaddrinfo.h, portable/getnameinfo.c,
portable/getnameinfo.h, portable/inet_aton.c, portable/inet_ntoa.c,
portable/inet_ntop.c, portable/macros.h, portable/setenv.c,
portable/stdbool.h, portable/strlcat.c, portable/strlcpy.c,
portable/system.h, portable/uio.h, portable/winsock.c, util/concat.c, and
util/vector.c have been placed in the public domain by their author.

The files portable/getopt.c and portable/getopt.h are released under the
following copyright and license:

  Copyright 1997, 2000, 2001, 2002 Benjamin Sittler
  Copyright 2008 Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>
  
  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
  copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  the following conditions:
   
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
   
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
  TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
  SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

The file portable/snprintf.c is released under the following license:

  This code is based on code written by Patrick Powell (papowell@astart.com)
  It may be used for any purpose as long as this notice remains intact
  on all source code distributions

The file tests/runtests.c is released under the following copyright and
license:

  Copyright 2000, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008
      Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
  copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
  TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
  SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

The files Makefile.in and aclocal.m4 are generated by GNU Automake and
released under the following copyright and license:

  Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002,
  2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
  This file is free software; the Free Software Foundation
  gives unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it,
  with or without modifications, as long as this notice is preserved.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law; without
  even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
  PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

The files configure and php/configure are generated by GNU Autoconf and
are released under the following copyright and license:

  Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001,
  2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
  This configure script is free software; the Free Software Foundation
  gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.

The files build-aux/compile, build-aux/depcomp, and build-aux/missing are
taken from GNU Automake.  The files build-aux/config.guess,
build-aux/config.sub, php/config.guess, and php/config.sub are taken from
the Debian autotools-dev package.  The files build-aux/ltmain.sh and
php/ltmain.sh are taken from GNU Libtool.  All of these files are released
under the following copyright and license:

  Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2002,
  2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
  Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
  later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  General Public License for more details.

  As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
  distribute this file as part of a program that contains a configuration
  script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under the same
  distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.

For the remctl distribution, the option described in the last paragraph
has been accepted and these files are distributed under the same terms as
the remctl package as a whole, as described at the top of this file.

The file build-aux/install-sh is released under the following copyright
and license:

  Copyright (C) 1994 X Consortium

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
  copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
  OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
  OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

  Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
  not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
  other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
  from the X Consortium.

  FSF changes to this file are in the public domain.

The files php/Makefile.global, php/acinclude.m4, php/aclocal.m4,
php/build/mkdep.awk, php/build/scan_makefile_in.awk, php/configure.in, and
php/run-tests.php are created by phpize and are covered by the following
license:

  -------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                    The PHP License, version 3.01
  Copyright (c) 1999 - 2006 The PHP Group. All rights reserved.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------- 

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, is permitted provided that the following conditions are
  met:

    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   
    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the
       distribution.
   
    3. The name "PHP" must not be used to endorse or promote products
       derived from this software without prior written permission. For
       written permission, please contact group@php.net.
    
    4. Products derived from this software may not be called "PHP", nor
       may "PHP" appear in their name, without prior written permission
       from group@php.net.  You may indicate that your software works in
       conjunction with PHP by saying "Foo for PHP" instead of calling it
       "PHP Foo" or "phpfoo"
   
    5. The PHP Group may publish revised and/or new versions of the
       license from time to time. Each version will be given a
       distinguishing version number.  Once covered code has been
       published under a particular version of the license, you may always
       continue to use it under the terms of that version. You may also
       choose to use such covered code under the terms of any subsequent
       version of the license published by the PHP Group. No one other
       than the PHP Group has the right to modify the terms applicable to
       covered code created under this License.

    6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
       acknowledgment:  "This product includes PHP software, freely
       available from <http://www.php.net/software/>".

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PHP DEVELOPMENT TEAM ``AS IS'' AND ANY
  EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PHP DEVELOPMENT TEAM OR
  ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
  TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
  PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The file php/build/libtool.m4 is covered by the following copyright and
license:

  Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006,
  2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  This file is free software; the Free Software Foundation gives unlimited
  permission to copy and/or distribute it, with or without modifications,
  as long as this notice is preserved.

The file php/build/shtool is covered by the following copyright and
license:

  Copyright (c) 1994-2007 Ralf S. Engelschall <rse@engelschall.com>

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
  Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
  option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
  Public License for more details.

For a complete copy of the GNU General Public License version 2, see
php/GPL-2.

The files python/_remctlmodule.c, python/remctl.py, and python/setup.py
are covered by the following license, which is almost identical to the
general remctl package license:

  Copyright 2008, Thomas L. Kula. All rights reserved. 
     
  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
  provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
  both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
  supporting documentation, and that the name of Thomas L. Kula not be
  used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
  software without specific, written prior permission. Thomas L. Kula
  makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any
  purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
